[DOC] Draft linux install for Tempo (#1954)
grafana/tempo: docs/tempo/website/setup/_index.md

---
title: Set up a Tempo server or cluster
menuTitle: Set up a Tempo server or cluster
description: Learn how to set up a Tempo server or cluster and visualize data
weight: 150
---

> # Set up a Tempo server or cluster

Reviewer: I see you've added "server" in quite a few spots but it sounds weird to me. We don't like just "cluster"?

Author: The Tanka instructions set up a cluster while the linux instructions set up a single node. Cluster is no longer accurate for both instructions.

Reviewer: Yeah. I agree. It's a little weird to me that these words "server" and "cluster" basically line up with "single binary" and "distributed" which we use elsewhere in the docs, but see what you're getting at.

FWIW there's nothing that prevents someone from running a Tempo cluster directly on a linux machine (as opposed to using some kind of orchestration), but I understand these instructions are focused on the single binary install.

Tempo is available as a pre-compiled binary, a Docker image, and as common OS-specific packaging.

> You can choose to install Tempo on a single system or as a cluster.

Reviewer: You can choose to install Tempo as single service or a distributed set of services?

Author: This brings up a good point. I don't think we have instructions on using Tempo as a distributed set of services. We have the Tanka setup for a cluster and the linux setup for a single node.

Author: ```suggestion
This section describes how to set up Tempo on a single Linux node or as a cluster using Kubernetes and Tanka. Tempo can also be set up as a distributed set of services.  
```

Reviewer: i like the clarification in your suggestion. i think this plays into the concerns above. "server" and "cluster" are just different words then we use throughout the rest of the docs.

This page highlights these steps; more detailed instructions are available on the procedures for installing Tempo.

## Name your cluster

If you install Tempo in a cluster, you need to decide what to call it.
A cluster name must meet the following criteria:

> - is 3 to 63 characters long

Reviewer: where do these restrictions come from?

Author: They are actually from the [Enterprise Traces content](https://grafana.com/docs/enterprise-traces/latest/setup/). Is this incorrect for a Tempo cluster?

Author: I'll remove this section.

- contains lowercase letters, numbers, underscores (_), or hyphens (-)
- begins with a letter or number
- ends with a letter or number

## Deploy Tempo

Choose a method to deploy Tempo:

- [Deploy on Linux]({{< relref "linux">}})
- [Deploy on Kubernetes using Tanka]({{< relref "tanka">}})

## Test your installation

> Once Tempo is deployed, you can test your cluster by visualizing the traces data with a simple TNS app.

Reviewer: we should point people away from TNS. we've moved to this project and it is much simpler to setup and produces better traces:

https://github.com/grafana/tempo/blob/main/example/docker-compose/gcs/docker-compose.yaml#L25

Author: @hedss  FYI.

Author: We should create a getting started using that example as a set up. We have an example app set up using the TNS app. I'll create a GH issue for this so we can make that happen.

Author: @hedss and I added content for the Docker example you pointed to.

weight: 150
---

> # Set up Tempo

Author: ```suggestion
# Set up a Tempo server
```
